# RESTful Transaction Service and Test Framework Implementation

This repository serves aims to provide the solutions to the 2 problems mentioned in the Challenge document. It consists of 2 projects.

* transactionservice: the RESTful implementation via a dyanmic Jave EE web application project.
* transactionservicetest: the test framework aiming at the web service via a simple test framework java project.

## Getting Started

The following is needed for setting up the 2 projects.

### Prerequisites

* JAVA 8 JDK
* APACHE TOMCAT 9.0.6 binary zip
* IDE WITH JAVA EE SUPPORT preferably ECLIPSE IDE.



### Setting up the project: RESTFul Implementation

Both the projects are MAVEN configured so much little work is required in setting them up. 

* Import the project titled "transactionservice" in IDE(preferably Eclipse).
* Wait for the projects to be set up.
* Right Click On transactionservice->Run As-> Run On Server
* Under Run on Server dialog, Set the Tomcat Server (use version 9.0) and configure Runtime environment to point to the installation directory of the server.
* Click Next and complete the wizard by clicking Finish.
* Wait till the RESTful service is ready.
* Once Ready, embedded browser of the IDE will appear displaying
  
## Transaction Service
### APIs are up and RUNNING!!

This confirms that all the APIs that were mentioned in the challenge with specs are now available as a service.

# RESTFul Implementation 

## Architecture

The implementation is administered by the servlet configuration "web.xml" file under WebContent->WEB-INF folder. This in turn points to the transaction service dynamic project.

* TransactionsResource, TransactionSumResource and TransactionTypeResource serve as servlet classes that delegate all API call functionalities to the class TransactionService for functionality.

* TransactionService class implements functionality and uses TransactionDataObjects class to do the data operations.

* TransactionDataObjects class prepares the memory with initial data and loads them to the server.

* TransactionData constructs the data structure for the transaction data.

##APIs

```
API: Show number of transactions
PROTOCOL: GET
URL: http://localhost:8080/transactionservice/rest/transactions/count
```
---------------------

```
API: Show number of transactions
PROTOCOL: GET
URL: http://localhost:8080/transactionservice/rest/transactions/count
```
---------------------
```
API: Show list of transactions
PROTOCOL: GET
URL: http://localhost:8080/transactionservice/rest/transactions/listoftransactions
Sample Output:
{
    "1000001": {
        "amount": 10,
        "type": "REWE",
        "parent_id": 10
    },
    "1000002": {
        "amount": 20,
        "type": "DM",
        "parent_id": 20
    }
}
```
---------------------
```

API: Make a Transaction
PROTOCOL: PUT
URL: http://localhost:8080/transactionservice/rest/transactions/$transactionId
Sample URL: http://localhost:8080/transactionservice/rest/transactions/1988
Sample JSON input #1:
	{
		"amount":75.12,
		"type":"IkeA",
		"parent_id": 20
	}
Sample JSON input #2:
	{
		"amount":7,
		"type":"Kaufland"
	}
Sample Output:
{
    "status": "ok"
}
```
---------------------
```
API: Display a transaction
PROTOCOL: GET
URL: http://localhost:8080/transactionservice/rest/transactions/$transactionId
Sample 1: http://localhost:8080/transactionservice/rest/transactions/1000001

```
---------------------
```

API: Filter transaction IDs by type
PROTOCOL: GET
URL: http://localhost:8080/transactionservice/rest/types/$transactionType
Sample 1: http://localhost:8080/transactionservice/rest/types/REWE
```
---------------------
```
API: Display sum of all transactions filtered by parent_id
PROTOCOL: GET
URL: http://localhost:8080/transactionservice/rest/sum/$parent_id
Sample Input URL: http://localhost:8080/transactionservice/rest/sum/30
Sample JSON output:
{
    "sum": "70.0"
}

```
---------------------


### Setting up the project: TEST Implementation

* Import as Maven Project the project titled "transactionservicetest".
* With the RESTful Transaction service running, the tests can be executed.
* Run the project using maven build configuration 
```
with Base directory set to Workspace
with goal "-Dtest=TransactionTypeTest test -fae surefire-report:report"
```

* Tests will be executed via Maven build run through JUnit tests using Cucumber based Step Definitions and Feature file.
* Surefire plugin will generate the reports under target/site folder
* Custom reports can be generated by using the xml files for reporting from target/surefire-reports
* There are ONLY 4 tests scripted at the moment!

## Architecture

The test implementation is a Maven built simple Cucumber + JUnit + SureFire Report framework.

* Cucumber Tests and step definitions must be put under "src/test/java"
* At present there is only one test file written aiming at the service for Transaction type.
* Cucumber feature files are put under "src/test/resources". 
* At present only 4 simple scenarios are covered.
* CUSTOM REPORTs are not added at the moment, however the implementation of such is easy.

#### Cucumber feature files offer good scalability and as the test base increases it also provides reusability of scenarios. Support of tags are an essential for the scope of this automation since in future we might be selective about which set of tests to run and when. Feature files may also be re-used for improvement and/or in migration of automation stacks.

#### Driven by JUnit, the tests can benefit of ease of design of test suites in the future. Since all components are opensource, the solution is also cost-efficient. 

#### On a large scale it is plausible to dedicate a Jenkins server for CI support and test plan for all/selective builds.


```
Feature: Testing Transaction Type feature
 
  Scenario: Retrieve transaction Ids using existing transaction type value
    When user request for transactions with REWE
    Then the requested data is returned
    
    
  Scenario: Retrieve transaction using existing transaction id
    When user request with transaction id 1000002
    Then the requested transaction is returned
```
### To add new tests in the existing feature, add
* Scenario in Feature file.
* Include methods in the step definition class defining the steps mentioned in the newly written scenarios.
* Run Maven build

### To add new feature tests, add
* New Feature file with scenarios.
* Add methods under step definition defining the steps mentioned in the newly written scenarios.
* Add new CucumberTest class targetting the new feature file.
* Run Maven build


### Extended Design

* Using a test suite driven architechture where the Cucumber Tests can be categorized using tags - smoke, sanity, regression.
* Trace steps of failed cases via the Cucumber tests.
* Build complex test scenarios.
* Use a single project with the web application and test implementation. Use single script to deploy and run automated tests based on test suite.
* View flaky tests in the report.

### Additiona Tools
* POSTMAN can be employed for API specification tests.
* JMeter scripts can aid in performing load tests by increasing threads on user requests.

